Welcome to Cinema Summary.
Being John Malkovich is a mindboggling movie,
one of many in fact.
Let’s cut to the chase and see what it's like to be John Malkovich
Craig Schwartz is our loser protagonist: unemployed
and a puppeteer in a breaking marriage with
his pet-obsessed wife Lotte. A lucky find
in the classified section gets him a filing
clerk job through Dr. Lester at LesterCorp,
in the strange Floor 7½ low-ceiling offices
of the Mertin-Flemmer Building in New York
City
Here he develops an attraction (though it’s more of an obsession)
to his coworker Maxine
Lund, who does not return his affections.
One day while working, Craig accidentally
finds, and enters a small door hidden behind
a filing cabinet and finds himself in the
mind of actor John Malkovich
Craig is able to observe and sense whatever Malkovich
does for fifteen minutes before he is ejected
and dropped into a ditch near the New Jersey
Turnpike.
Like literally, ejected and dropped.
Craig tells Lotte, who becomes obsessed with
the experience,
allowing her to live out her transgender desires.
Lotte becomes attracted to Maxine and they begin a sexual relationship via Lotte being inside
Malkovich's head while Maxine has sex with
Malkovich. Craig, ditched by both women, binds
and gags Lotte and locks her in a cage, then
enters Malkovich's mind and has sex with Maxine
What the heck is wrong with these people?
Craig with his expert puppeteering skills discovers
that he is able to control Malkovich's actions
while in his head
and brags about it in front of a caged Lotte
But the actor realizes his lack of control
and begins to feel paranoid
that he is being controlled by someone else.
After Malkovich talks with his friend Charlie
Sheen (an equally real actor), Malkovich follows
Maxine to the Mertin-Flemmer building, discovering
Maxine and Craig’s business, where he himself
tries the portal into his own head and finds
himself in a world where everyone's face looks
just like him and they can only say "Malkovich"
Running out of the strange restaurant, he
is then ejected and meets Craig by the turnpike.
Malkovich demands that the portal be closed,
but Craig refuses.
Lotte escapes with the help of her pet chimpanzee.
She phones Maxine, revealing that it was Craig
who was having sex with her while inside Malkovich.
Maxine is annoyed but accepts it,
she enjoyed the experience and goes to Malkovich’s anyway.
Seeking help, Lotte finds Lester, who reveals
Seeking help, Lotte finds Lester who reveals
himself to be Captain Mertin, the original
founder of LesterCorp. Lester is aware of
the portal, and has a room dedicated to Malkovich's
life
which Lotte had discovered earlier in the flim.
So a little explanation for you guys
whoever enters the portal is basically a ghost
and whenever they enter this portal, which is connected to somebody.
On their 44th birthday at 12 'o'clock at midnight
This 'ghost' can take control of this body, forever.
But! If they go past midnight, instead of this body...
they go into the body, of 'their child' and when that happens
the 'ghost' cannot control the body.
Lester, who has been using the portal in order
to live longer, reveals his plan to use Malkovich
when "ripe" as the host for him and several
of his elderly friends. Offered the chance
to join Lester's group, Lotte warns him that
Craig currently has control of Malkovich.
Craig finds he is able to remain in Malkovich
permanently. He spends the next eight months
in Malkovich's body, using his skills as a
‘puppeteer’, he is able to turn Malkovich
into a world-class puppeteer as narrated
over a TV special. Malkovich marries Maxine.
He learns that she is pregnant though their
relationship grows distant.
As Malkovich's 44th birthday approaches, Lester
and his friends make a deal with Maxine, and
fake her kidnapping. They call up Craig, threatening
to kill her if Craig does not leave Malkovich.
Craig ends the call, causing Lester to think
that he is calling their bluff. Lotte loses
hope and tries to kill Maxine, but they end
up at the turnpike after falling through the
portal and through Malkovich's shame-ridden
subconscious. Maxine reveals to Lotte that
Maxine conceived when Lotte was inside Malkovich's
body, and she kept the child because it is
"theirs".
This reveal cements their love
for each other.
Craig calls back Lester, thinking Maxine is
still in danger. Realizing his opportunity,
Lester continues his bluff, convincing Craig
to leave Malkovich's body which he does
Lester and his friends enter the portal ,taking control of Malkovich.
Craig, discovering that Lotte and
Maxine are together again, decides to enter
the portal to become Malkovich and regain
Maxine’s love, however he
has unknowingly missed the deadline for getting
into Malkovich. Years later, an aging Malkovich,
containing the collective mind of Lester and
his friends, reveals to Charlie Sheen a plan
to prolong their lives via Maxine's daughter
Emily, within whom Craig is now permanently
trapped. Through Emily's eyes Craig watches
Maxine and Lotte living happily together.
Thank you so much for watching, if you liked it
leave a like down below and subscribe, if you haven't.
Until next time!
Malkovich, Malkovich, Malkovich.